Clarify that VDAFs aren't sufficient for DP (#339)
cfrg/draft-irtf-cfrg-vdaf: draft-irtf-cfrg-vdaf.md

    seriesinfo: S&P 2020
    target: https://eprint.iacr.org/2019/074

  MPRV09:
    title: "Computational Differential Privacy"
    author:
      - ins: I. Mironov
      - ins: O. Pandey
      - ins: O. Reingold
      - ins: S. Vadhan
    seriesinfo: CRYPTO 2009
    target: https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-642-03356-8_8

> 

Reviewer: We can also delete the commented-out "Vad16" reference below. That was just used [here](https://github.com/cjpatton/ppm/blob/1d38aacd713ec7f23a3de3a41c5166e29ef43be2/draft-patton-multi-ppm.md?plain=1#L377) early in the history of the document, and the other references we have are sufficient.

aggregation server. The aggregation server then adds up the noisy measurements,
and because it knows the distribution from which the noise was sampled, it can
estimate the true sum with reasonable accuracy.

However, even when noise is added to the measurements, collecting them in the
clear still reveals a significant amount of information to the collector. On
the one hand, depending on the "amount" of noise a client adds to its
measurement, it may be possible for a curious collector to make a reasonable
guess of the measurement's true value. On the other hand, the more noise the
clients add, the less reliable will be the server's estimate of the output.
Thus systems relying solely on a DP mechanism must strike a delicate balance
between privacy and utility.

The ideal goal for a privacy-preserving measurement system is that of secure
multi-party computation (MPC): No participant in the protocol should learn
anything about an individual measurement beyond what it can deduce from the
differentially private aggregate {{MPRV09}}. In this document, we describe
Verifiable Distributed Aggregation Functions (VDAFs) as a general class of

> delegated MPC protocols that can be used to achieve this goal.

Reviewer 2: What does "delegated" MPC mean? Is the distinction useful in this document?

Author: "Delegated" means a small set of servers carry out the computation on behalf of a large number of clients providing the inputs.

Reviewer 3: Is that a term of art?  It's the first I've heard it.

aggregate statistics while protecting individual measurements can deliver the
value of the measurements while protecting users' privacy.

> This problem is often formulated in terms of "differential privacy (DP)"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This problem is often formulated in terms of differential privacy (DP)
```

{{Dwo06}}. Roughly speaking, a data aggregation system that is differentially
private ensures that the degree to which any individual measurement influences
the value of the aggregate result can be precisely controlled. For example, in
systems like RAPPOR {{EPK14}}, each user samples noise from a well-known
distribution and adds it to their measurement before submitting to the
aggregation server. The aggregation server then adds up the noisy measurements,

> and because it knows the distribution from whence the noise was sampled, it can

Reviewer 4: "from whence" seems fancy, when "from which" would do.

Author: Thanks for crushing my dreams, Richard.

estimate the true sum with reasonable accuracy.

> However even when the measurements are noised, collecting them in the clear

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
However, even when the measurements are noised, collecting them in the clear
```

> However even when the measurements are noised, collecting them in the clear

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
However even when noise is added to measurements, collecting them in the clear
```

still reveals a significant amount of information to the collector.
Specifically, depending on the "amount" of noise a client adds to its
measurement, it may be possible for a curious collector to make a reasonable

> guess of the measurement's true value. Indeed, the more noise the clients add,

Reviewer 4: Instead of "Specifically, ... Indeed...", I might use "On the one hand... On the other hand..."

the less reliable will be the server's estimate of the output. Thus systems
relying solely on a DP mechanism must strike a delicate balance between privacy
and utility.

The ideal goal for a privacy-preserving measurement system is that of secure
multi-party computation (MPC): No participant in the protocol should learn
anything about an individual measurement beyond what it can deduce from the

> differntially private aggregate {{MPRV09}}. In this document, we describe

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
differentially private aggregate {{MPRV09}}. In this document, we describe
```

against these risks by adding additional controls on report submission,
such as Client authentication and rate limits.

> VDAFs do not inherently provide differential privacy {{Dwo06}}: depending on

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
VDAFs do not inherently provide differential privacy {{Dwo06}}. Depending on
```

the distribution of the measurements, the aggregate result itself can still

> leak a significant amount of information about the measurements. Thus

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
leak a significant amount of information about individual measurements or measurements
that relate to a single person or group. Thus
```

Author: Changed to "an individual measurement or the person that generated it", PTAL.

> applications SHOULD execute a VDAF with a compatible mechanism for differential

Reviewer 5: How does an implementer know what makes a mechanism compatible?

When is this a MUST?

Author: > How does an implementer know what makes a mechanism compatible?

I don't think we can answer this question without being concrete about what DP mechanisms are available. There is an I-D for this, but its in early stages and doesn't have a home at IETF yet: https://github.com/wangshan/draft-wang-ppm-differential-privacy/

> When is this a MUST?

It really depends on the application: for Poplar1, we think it's always going to be necessary to stop attacks (https://github.com/cfrg/draft-irtf-cfrg-vdaf/pull/336); for Prio3, it doesn't seem strictly necessary in all cases.

Author: For the record, @ekr suggests on list that a SHOULD is inappropriate and the sentence should just be deleted.

Reviewer 4: Might I suggest one of the additional options in RFC 6919, e.g., [SHOULD CONSIDER](https://rfcs.online/rfcs/rfc6919.html#section-2)?

More seriously, the idea of composition seems worth mentioning, but I agree that RFC 2119 language probably isn't appropriate.

Author: @martinthomson also concurs on list, I'll remove it!

> applications SHOULD execute a VDAF with a compatible mechanism for differential

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
applications might compose a VDAF with a compatible mechanism for differential
```

Author: I deleted the sentence per @ekr's suggestion ... I can add it back with "might" if you like.
